## Title: My eyes are sleepy. The movie "Fabrication."
## Date: 2026-02-03
## Author: Shigesato Itoi
## Content:

All right, time to write about something utterly inconsequential again today. That's what I think as I sit down at the keyboard, but I'm so sleepy. Though sleepiness comes in all different varieties, you know. I sometimes put it this way: rather than being sleepy overall, right now it's my "eyes that are sleepy." Being awake isn't hard, I'm full of energy to work! But since my "eyes are sleepy," I'd like to rest them if I could. To rest them, I figure I should close them. Maybe I'll close my eyes. It's only my eyes that are sleepy, after all. Just my eyes. If I'm going to close my eyes, it seems like it would be more convenient to lie down rather than stay sitting in this chair. I don't intend to sleep. I just want to close them to rest my eyes. That happens a lot, you know. And sometimes I actually do lie down on the sofa and close my eyes. Then, why is this? Even though I wasn't sleepy, I fall asleep. My "eyes were sleepy," that's all it was supposed to be, and yet I fall asleep. (Thus concludes this story for now. I was trying to write about something utterly inconsequential, but before I could write about something utterly inconsequential, I fell asleep.)

Well, my "eyes are still sleepy," and I think the reason is that last night, after I'd decided to go to bed, I started watching a movie. I started watching just the beginning of "Fabricated: The Man Called a Murderous Teacher," but I couldn't stop anywhere along the way and ended up watching the whole thing. I mean, the title itself is a "spoiler," isn't it? A film with an intense performance by Ayano Go, a fierce performance by Shibasaki Kou, and a superb supporting performance by Kobayashi Kaoru. The story of a man called a murderous teacher because of "fabrications." You practically know the whole plot without even watching it, don't you? But once I started watching, I became so frustrated, and got dragged into the quagmire along with the protagonist, and became so at a loss for what to do that I couldn't stop. But look, you know how it ends, right? He's able to clear his name. You want to see that outcome, even as you spend all that time feeling frustrated. It's a movie based on a true story, and honestly, it makes you grind your teeth. "Fabrications," when wielded by those with power, are terrifying, you know. Thanks for visiting Hobonichi today. That was me, all worked up at dawn, shouting things like "Yes, Kobayashi Kaoru!"
