## Title: This sentence isn't written on parchment.
## Date: 2026-03-08
## Author: Shigesato Itoi
## Content:

What I'm writing here, right now, I'm not writing it "because it's important." I know there are plenty of things far more important than this. There are probably things I ought to say precisely because they're not important. And yet, "setting aside all those things I'm not saying," here I am, writing something or other. Whenever something is written, whenever something is said, there are hundreds of billions of times more things that aren't written, aren't said. So why on earth am I writing this, of all things? If someone were to seriously press me on that, I couldn't give them a proper answer. If there were something I truly wanted to write, I think I'd probably write it, but whether that would actually be something important, I don't know. I think it's okay to say that important things aren't the only things that matter. This might be one of those important things that doesn't look important. It's complicated. I wish I'd started writing about something simpler, but that's too much trouble, so I'll just keep going.

One reason I can write something so apparently wasteful like this is the fact that this medium isn't a "stone tablet" or "parchment" or anything like that. In ancient times, when people wanted to write something, the medium they wrote on was extremely precious. Even "paper," which came much later, was precious. And to get it read by everyone, you had to go through the process of printing and then transporting that paper. Without having to pay those "high costs," we can now say things like "well, well" or "huh" and get away with it. That's the age we're living in. The meaning of precious, the calculation of costs, the weight of what should be written, the qualifications for writing, everything has changed. Once again, we're asking: what's really necessary for writing and communicating? What should be valued? The meaning of learning and knowledge must be changing too. I'd really like to know what form that takes.

Thanks for coming to Hobonichi again today. I have a feeling "the richness of what goes unsaid" might be the hint we're looking for.
